### Documentation
#### Establishing connections

The recommended way to establish a connection is this:


    var mysql      = require('mysql');
    var connection = mysql.createConnection({
      host     : 'example.org',
      user     : 'bob',
      password : 'secret',
    });

    connection.connect(function(err) {
      // connected! (unless `err` is set)
    });

However, a connection can also be implicitly established by invoking a query:

    var mysql      = require('mysql');
    var connection = mysql.createConnection('...');

    connection.query('SELECT 1', function(err, rows) {
      // connected! (unless `err` is set)
    });

Depending on how you like to handle your errors, either method may be
appropriate. Any type of connection error (handshake or network) is considered
a fatal error, see the [Error Handling](#error-handling) section for more
information.

#### Connection options

When establishing a connection, you can set the following options:

* `host`: The hostname of the database you are connecting to. (Default:
  `localhost`)
* `port`: The port number to connect to. (Default: `3306`)
* `socketPath`: The path to a unix domain socket to connect to. When used `host`
  and `port` are ignored.
* `user`: The MySQL user to authenticate as.
* `password`: The password of that MySQL user.
* `database`: Name of the database to use for this connection (Optional).
* `charset`: The charset for the connection. (Default: `'UTF8_GENERAL_CI'`)
* `timezone`: The timezone used to store local dates. (Default: `'local'`)
* `insecureAuth`: Allow connecting to MySQL instances that ask for the old
  (insecure) authentication method. (Default: `false`)
* `typeCast`: Determines if column values should be converted to native
   JavaScript types. (Default: `true`)
* `debug`: Prints protocol details to stdout. (Default: `false`)
* `multipleStatements`: Allow multiple mysql statements per query. Be careful
  with this, it exposes you to SQL injection attacks. (Default: `false)
* `flags`: List of connection flags to use other than the default ones. It is
  also possible to blacklist default ones. For more information, check [Connection Flags](#connection-flags).

In addition to passing these options as an object, you can also use a url
string. For example:

    var connection = mysql.createConnection('mysql://user:pass@host/db?debug=true&charset=BIG5_CHINESE_CI&timezone=-0700');

Note: The query values are first attempted to be parsed as JSON, and if that
fails assumed to be plaintext strings.

#### Terminating connections

There are two ways to end a connection. Terminating a connection gracefully is
done by calling the `end()` method:

    connection.end(function(err) {
      // The connection is terminated now
    });

This will make sure all previously enqueued queries are still before sending a
`COM_QUIT` packet to the MySQL server. If a fatal error occurs before the
`COM_QUIT` packet can be sent, an `err` argument will be provided to the
callback, but the connection will be terminated regardless of that.

An alternative way to end the connection is to call the `destroy()` method.
This will cause an immediate termination of the underlying socket.
Additionally `destroy()` guarantees that no more events or callbacks will be
triggered for the connection.

    connection.destroy();

Unlike `end()` the `destroy()` method does not take a callback argument.

#### Switching users / altering connection state

MySQL offers a changeUser command that allows you to alter the current user and
other aspects of the connection without shutting down the underlying socket:

    connection.changeUser({user : 'john'}, function(err) {
      if (err) throw err;
    });

The available options for this feature are:

* `user`: The name of the new user (defaults to the previous one).
* `password`: The password of the new user (defaults to the previous one).
* `charset`: The new charset (defaults to the previous one).
* `database`: The new database (defaults to the previous one).

A sometimes useful side effect of this functionality is that this function also
resets any connection state (variables, transactions, etc.).

Errors encountered during this operation are treated as fatal connection errors
by this module.
